# ResearchProject
Comparative Transcriptomic Analysis of iPSC-Derived and Fetal LGE Striatal Neurons: Insights into MSN Expression Profiles for Huntington's Disease Therapy.

Stem cell engineering of striatal medium spiny neurons (MSNs) is a promising strategy to understand diseases affecting the striatum and for cell-replacement therapies in disease such as Huntington’s disease (Conforti et al., 2022). The striatum is a component of the basal ganglia and is an integral part of the basal ganglia. It primarily consists of indirect and direct medium spiny neurons (MSNs), which are selectively vulnerable to Huntington’s Disease. 
This project utilises Seurat to create unified, high-quality datasets through data manipulation and quality control procedures for integration. Differential gene expression (DEG) analysis was performed on two datasets of single-cell sequencing fetal LGE cells integrated with our own iPSC data, identifying differences between iPSC and fetal LGE cells, as well as conserved key markers across sample and cell types. A subset of one dataset, containing only one timepoint, is compared to the full dataset to assess the effect of developmental changes in gene expression reducing the accuracy of results. The results and implications of this DEG analysis are discussed in comparison with both datasets, as well as within the context of current and recent literature. We identified that iPSC neurons express (at RNA level) markers of striatal development as seen in embryonic striatal cells. We identify key conserved markers across sample types such as SIX3, FOXP1, and PSCK1N, and discuss the biological implications of this in relation to current literature. The analytical and theoretical implications are reviewed and future directions, including epigenetic profiling and cell transplantation therapy, are considered.
These findings can be used in combination with previous and future work to better understand the developmental pathways of medium spiny neurons, and subsequently better understand what happens when this goes wrong.


All scripts are executed via R (version 2023.03.0.386)
